# Performance Testing 
## What is Performance Testing ?
Performance testing is **non-functional** software testing technique, that ensures software applications to perform properly 
under their expected wordload. It is a testing technique carried out to determine system performance in terms of sensitivity, 
reactivity and stability under a particular workload. 

## Why do Performance Testing ? 
The goal of performance testing is not to find bugs but to eliminate performance bottlenecks. Bottlenecks are a single point or
component within a system's overall function that holds back overall performance. Performance testing can be used to help identify
the nature or location of a software-related performance problem by highlighting where an application might fall or lag, it can also
verify that a system meets the specifications claimed by its manufacturer or vendor.

## Types of Performance Testing
There are many types of testing methods that can be used to determine performance. Some examples are as follows: 
- **Load Testing:** measures system performance as the workload increases. That workload could mean concurrent users or transactions.
    The objective is to identify performance bottlenecks before the software application goes live.
- **Stress Testing:** is meant to measure system performance outside of the parameters of normal working conditions (under extreme conditions). 
    The objective is to identify the breaking point of an application. 
- **Spike Testing:** it tests the system's reaction to sudden large spikes in the load generated by the users. The workloads are substantially increased
  increased quickly and repeatedly. The workload is beyond normal expectations for short amounts of time.
- **Endurance Testing:** is performed to ensure the software can handle the expected load over a long period of time. 
- **Scalability Testing:** is used to determine if software is effectively handling increasing workloads. This can be determined by gradually adding to the
  user load or data volume while monitoring system performance. It helps plan capacity addition to your software system. 
 - **Capacity Testing:** determines how efficiently software performs with large projected amounts of data. The objective is to check
   product's performance under varying database volumes.
   
## Performance Testing process
